how would the world be a different place  if i had never challenged the authority  of freely and durianrider do you ever  stop to ask yourself that  i mean do you ask yourself what it would  be like  to live in a parallel world  where durianrider and freely had  remained the unchallenged champions and  leaders of the vegan movement where they  were still convening  their uh global get-together in chiang  mai  every year  right where their  videos were still bringing in  millions of views  per month where they were still  dominating the discourse about veganism  in such august and highly respected  publications as the daily mirror in  england the daily mail i'm sorry but a  lot of those newspapers really used to  like covering freely and durianrider now  look to some extent  my intervention destroyed the careers of  freely and durianrider directly  and to some extent the effect of my  intervention was indirect it involved  many factors beyond my control coming  together however it's also true to say  none of those things would have come  together and happened if it weren't  for my intervention so to give an  example and this is only one of many  there was a guy who had a youtube  channel called nor vegan  and under whatever sordid circumstances  his girlfriend met up with and had sex  with durianrider  and she made a youtube video denouncing  during writer  defending me and supporting my case and  that video was on my youtube channel and  it got more views on my youtube channel  than it did on hers at that time when it  first went up right and i deleted it  from my youtube channel when i found out  that some of the things she said in that  video were deceptive that it didn't live  up to my own ethical standards  and  she and her boyfriend  uh hannah was her name  uh hannah chloe right i'm not getting  the name it's been up been a few years  guys  and her boyfriend uh  norvega they carried on this campaign  against durianrider and it's quite right  for people to say look when you look  back at the history of what happened and  why it's not the case that this youtube  channel single-handedly destroyed  durianrider there were these other  things to happen but that would have  never happened  without me to my youtube channel that  specific video that first step  which by the way sorry not to blame  everything on hannah and her boyfriend  or vegan what stunned everyone what  everyone was astonished by including  hannah herself and norwegian was  durianrider's response to hannah's video  because he immediately made the  controversy about allegations of rape he  took what had been a kind of low-key  moral quandary or question within the  vegan movement and he immediately  escalated it up to 11 and made it a  conflicted boat rape that's true that  also led to the destruction of  durianrider and his career again my  point is not that i did it alone  but actually none of these other things  would have happened without my standing  up to durianrider am i refusing to back  down now another factor here if you guys  don't know is freely herself i'm going  to read you something verbatim now it's  actually easy enough to find on the  internet it's easy enough to find on  durianrider's own website this is a  statement freely made on the internet i  think she made it on several places on  the internet i believe she made it on  her own uh blog  but i think it was also on her facebook  page uh  correct people wrong but anyway this is  this is a statement i'm sorry she might  at that time i don't think i think she  might have been banned from instagram i  forget if she was on instagram or not  freely was banned from instagram a  couple of times but anyways this was a  statement in writing  freely made about harley and it was very  damaging to both of their reputations  right and i can go through it none of  this would have happened without my  intervention even though i am not  responsible for this in any way fully  the banana girl said quote he would  constantly stare at and do groundwork on  young girls even under age ones  this made me even more insecure about  myself  one girl in particular in adelaide he  was always trying to get close to and it  creeped me out  her name is porsha and he said that if  we weren't together he would quote [ __ ]  her if no one closed up if no one found  out close quote  she was 15.  i found it so disgusting but he said  quote well at least i'm being honest  with you close quote  he would compare me to these girls all  the time he would say i was looking old  and stressed and that these young girls  had far more potential on youtube than  me so i should do whatever it took to  look younger  he constantly would make everything  about my looks online and in person when  speaking to others  he made me feel like little more than  just a body i'll be the first to admit  that this was terrible for my  self-esteem okay so that's actually not  the complete message that you can tell  we're stopping mid-sentence there um  so irony of ironies  what eventuated in chiang mai thailand  was that  durianrider made completely baseless  allegations about me that i had some  romantic involvement with underage  teenage girls  right  and in fact  his own  long-term girlfriend  his own kind of de facto common-law wife  frilly the banana girl stood up and  denounced him  for pursuing  sexual relations with underage teenage  girls  all right she denounced him for that now  guys let's just talk for a moment about  defamation  all right why is it defamation and  slander for jerry fire to say this about  me  and it's not defamation or slander for  me to say this about him because i am  relating to you something factual right  dorian writer spoke to my ex-wife if you  guys don't remember that during writer  he got on the phone with her i don't  know if it was skype or what but some  kind of telephone call it's established  on the record durianriders spoke to my  ex-wife trying to get some kind of  gossip on me some kind of dirt on me he  didn't anything  my ex-wife never said anything like this  about me if my ex-wife had said  something like this about me that still  wouldn't mean it's true  it just means that it's a fact that my  ex-wife said this about me but that is a  fact you can report and then it's not  defamation so we just went through this  on a on a crazy scale  uh with johnny depp  and amber hurd right there was a court  case that already concluded in england  about whether or not it was defamation  to say these things about johnny depp  and fundamentally it was not defamation  to say  this is what johnny depp's ex-wife says  about him now it may be a lie in the  reader of the newspaper they may  conclude that his ex-wife is uh  exaggerating or is being unreasonable or  being overly harsh in casting or you may  not you may think hey his ex-wife is  just telling the truth that is for you  as the reader to decide but the  newspaper is not defeating anyone in  reporting  what johnny depp's ex-wife said about  him right that's not defamation but for  durianrider to invent fiction about me  right to make fictional claims about my  sex life and they were claims i could  prove were false right but they were  also baseless claims right that is  defamation that is slander all right now  again what did freely say about during  writer and irony of ironies of course he  threatened her with legal consequences  for this he threatened at the same time  that he's claiming i have no basis to  sue him for defamation he turns around  and threatens freely with the  consequences for slander definition what  freely said about dorian ryder was quote  he would constantly stare at girls  it's pardon me let's get this verbatim  right he would quote he would constantly  stare at and do ground work on young  girls  comma even under age ones period this  made me even more insecure about myself  period just close quote let's just  the main problem she has with this is  that it's making her feel insecure about  herself  she really she doesn't seem to really  think it's a problem that he's pursuing  sex with teenage girls some of whom are  under 16 apparently or under 18 she  gives one example of someone who was  under 16. we don't know what she means  in saying that they're underage  depending on where you live could mean  under 16 could mean under 18 could mean  whatever the legal limit is we don't  know but she gives an example of a 15  year old who is well known to people  within veganism this specific situation  with porsha  yeah it's well known because there were  other witnesses who talked about it on  youtube  the one i remember most is joey  carbstrom talking about it but there  were several other people  who talked about this particular  uh young woman  and by the way to my knowledge nobody  has claimed that durianrider actually  had sex with porsha so i'm not alleging  or insinuating that point this is what  his own ex-girlfriend said and again  her moral problem with this her ethical  objection to this is that it made her  feel bad about herself and that she had  to work hard to look younger and be more  attractive on youtube  she's a really shallow person freely  what can i tell you that's a response to  this she's not analyzing this in terms  of what's good for the vegan movement  she's not analyzing this in terms of the  ethics of how you should live your life  if you're famous or influential her  complaint is that durianrider was  pursuing sex with other women especially  attractive teenage women and that it  made her feel bad  about herself  now  you can read between the lines here  you know maybe implicitly she's saying  that she would be able to tolerate some  cheating or some sleeping around or  maybe it was an open relationship to  some extent we don't know right but it  is remarkable that her complaint of  putin turkenrider was that his pursuit  of sex with younger women negatively  impacted her self-esteem and that is  exactly what she says not that it  negatively impacted the younger women  not that it negatively impacted the  vegan movement or their career on  youtube which is obviously true  obviously this destroyed their  reputation youtube and again that's not  because of me  there's a real sense in which freely  destroyed herself there's a real sense  in which durian writer destroyed himself  but this storm of controversy and  criticism none of this would have  happened without my intervention and the  specific situation we were in was  durianrider makes the allegation that i  am a quote-unquote sexual predator  and immediately hannah khloe stands up  and makes a video and points the finger  back at him and says no  if there's anyone in the vegan community  in chiang mai who's been predatory who's  been in this sense predatory it's you  durianrider hannah chloe makes that  allegation again this is not defamation  or slander i am reporting to you what  hannah chloe said in her now notorious  youtube video that everyone has seen she  says no nothing like this ever happened  with isil mazzard the allegations  against him the allegations against me  are completely false or fictitious but  you know what you know someone in the  vegan community in chiang mai who's  really pursuing a lot of women in a  quote unquote predatory way whatever  that means hannah cloway pointed the  finger at durianrider and hannah chloe  had herself had sex with during writing  again that snowballed durianrider  immediately made that into a controversy  about rape and he started defending  himself claiming that he didn't rape her  and that controversy escalated from  there so this is one conscious and then  the other contrast is during writer  makes an allegation that i'm pursuing  teenagers  and  underage teenagers  sometimes or especially or even underage  teenagers you know  and in fact his own long-term girlfriend  his own defacto  you know common-law wife this woman he's  been with for so many years she stands  up and points the finger back at him she  doesn't defend me she doesn't say no  it's not true about some sort but she  says well actually  this is the problem with with  durianrider so that was the context and  yeah you know again i've endured some  inconveniences you know from this but  the impact on freelee herself the impact  on during writers is much much  worse it's completely devastated them  it'll it'll ruin the rest of their lives  and one of the reasons look  one of the reasons it won't ruin my life  is just that i really was honest with my  audience all along everyone knew what  was going on with my life everyone knew  what my ambitions and aspirations were  and i sure as hell did not go to chiang  mai thailand in order to have sex with  teenagers that was not on my mind at all  my i was never involved in the vegan  movement to learn the kind of uh  pardon me i was never involved in the  vegan movement to lead the kind of life  durianrider and freely were leading i  was not interested in the permanent  vacation lifestyle i was the foremost  critic of the permanent vacation  lifestyle that's exactly why i was a  threat to them i was the person asking  hard questions but what is this going to  mean for the for the future of the  movement right and that's why i went to  chiang mai was to ask those questions  and to meet the other people who shared  my concerns with me and i did there were  a whole lot of vegans in chiang mai at  that time who were really happy to meet  me and say yeah we think you're the guy  asking the right questions on youtube  and i still get that i get that from  people who are inside paul beshear's  organization my point being i criticized  publisher but there are people inside  that organization who appreciate me  there are people inside earthling ed's  organization who sent me email and  appreciate me there are people who are  part of these deeply flawed movements  like uh dxe wayne seong uh director they  know how messed up the current model of  vegan activism is right and they're  really happy to reach out to me and  whatever have some kind of conversation  with me about what the future of the  movement is going to be and how we're  all supposed to live okay anyways let's  just just read the skin because this  really is significant all right so  freely just complained that this made  her feel insecure about herself  quote  one girl in particular in adelaide he  was always trying to get close to and it  creeped me out her name is portia and he  said that if we weren't together he  would quote within a quote [ __ ] her if  no one found out close quote she was 15.  i found it so disgusting but he said  quote within a quote  well at least i'm being honest with you  close quote  he would compare me to these young girls  all the time he would say i was looking  old and stressed and that these young  girls had far more potential on youtube  than me so i should do whatever it took  to look younger he would constantly make  everything about my looks online in  person when speaking with others he made  me feel a little more than just a body  right i'll and close this quote i'll be  the first to admit that this was  terrible for my self-esteem so there  were a lot of really meaningful  questions she could be asking about  herself and about vegan activism and you  know there are a lot of meaningful  ethical questions she could be asking  also about about dorian ryder's sex life  or about her own sex life and they're  not there it is a completely  self-pitying self-centered commentary  from freely okay that was the situation  at the start of this  case  at the start of this conflict and i've  opened this video by asking you how  different would the world be today if i  hadn't stood up and done this all right  i  you know i can't look back on this with  any regret  whatsoever i can't look back on this and  say well i regret that i lost so many  years or so many hours or so many  thousands of dollars  you know doing the right thing  just because it was the right thing to  do no i mean i'm sorry those of you some  people watch this video who weren't even  vegan in the year let's say 2015. there  are people here watching this who have  no idea that these people dominated  veganism not just on youtube  but also on the mainstream broadcast  media they really changed the narrative  about veganism and vegan activism in a  profound way it wasn't just about money  and fame there was a lot  a lot going on here and i remember  talking to some vegan activists in  europe  oh was this in hungary or poland i  remember talking to people in eastern  europe and they said how weird it was  when these vegan groups  they they stopped imitating the sort of  peta model  of activism and when they started  imitating during writer and freely when  they started imitating this notion like  oh this should be about personal beauty  and weight loss and riding a bicycle you  know obviously i also heard from people  in california and portland oregon of  course of course portland oregon this  had a huge impact on but like you know  there were people who took up bicycling  i was one guy i remember he sold all of  his furniture and made his youtube  videos sitting on the floor in an  apartment with no no furniture just to  imitate frilly endearing rider this was  something that had very broad influence  on the movement but also very deep  influence  and you know i've just published a book  if you guys don't know i published a  book  you know asking really tough questions  about what's going on in the vegan  movement the future of the vegan  movement well  you know this led to um  a kind of bizarre optimism  about the potential for human vanity  to bring about a transformation of  politics and ethics on planet earth the  idea that millions of people  would take up a vegan diet if only  cosmopolitan magazine and vanity fair  these kinds of really shallow magazines  were featuring and promoting the diet as  the only way to lose weight look where  it  be an athlete wear a bikini show emitter  and it just didn't occur to these people  that you know what  this month a vegan diet can be on the  cover of cosmopolitan magazine and next  month it can be a carnivore diet  you know so many of these fat diets are  good i remember the taco diet you know  that was in the mainstream press for a  while it could be the popcorn diet  but sure the mango diet the mango and  banana diet that could be on the cover  of magazines one month and guess what  there's another magazine coming up the  next month and the editor of that  magazine is saying they're saying  what are we going to go with for the  lead story  oh this woman lost 40 pounds on the  popcorn diet okay let's do a whole issue  promoting the popcorn today and none of  them changed the world human vanity  fatuousness and self-indulgence the the  illusion of going on permanent vacation  the illusion selling it to middle-aged  people you can have a second youth and  yeah probably for a lot of guys you can  sleep with  younger better looking women i mean i  think that was certainly you can see it  on durianrider's channel the fantasy  that is a middle aged man you can get on  a vegan diet start riding your bicycle  become an athlete lift weights look  great and then sleep with younger better  looking vegan women or something sure  that was part of the the mythos they  were selling and they made a lot of  money but it was it was a fundamentally  broken incoherent self-contradictory  nonsensical model for what the vegan  movement was supposed to be it had to  stop  sooner or later and yes i take credit  for ending it sooner rather than later i  had a critique of freely enduring for at  least one year  on my channel  and that critique you know dramatically  had effect because of the evils of who  dorian writer and freely were privately  becoming public in the aftermath of  durianrider making these slanderous  defamatory comments against me right so  that's that's the situation  now in this video guys i'm happy to do q  a thanks for making comments if you want  to hit the thumbs up button it'll help  people find the video i'm i'm really i  can chit-chat with you i'm making this  video today because this is now may 5th  2022  and i was supposed to fly back to  thailand i was supposed to have my next  day in court in thailand and i talked to  my lawyer and so on and so forth as you  can imagine  there is this pandemic on planet earth  you may have thought about and just a  few months ago  it seemed as if there was some optimism  that the pandemic was over and done with  and right now in southeast asia it is  not over and done with in countries like  thailand in vietnam  in myanmar and indeed in china  uh  itself  in terms of the dominoes you know the  domino effect china is the biggest  domino to fall  wherever you are living when you see  this it may be that quarantine is over  where you are maybe the danger is over  where you are and people are getting all  their lives it's a big planet all right  and no like in many ways  asia is actually going through like its  first wave you know you talk about the  third wave of the fourth when you look  at the chart the number of cases  recently has been so enormous there so  the travel insurance pardon me the  travel restrictions are crazy all right  that's basically all there is to it and  if there's one thing i've learned in the  last several years it's that the thai  court system is really good at delaying  and rescheduling a case because we've  delayed and rescheduled so many times  and you know i'm not in a situation  where i can fly to thailand right now  with all these these crazy restrictions  so i don't know when my next day  quarters if you guys have questions  about that i can answer them but i mean  that's the update on that level about  that particular thing i'll just be real  with you in terms of what the experience  was for me and finding that out  i was sitting there clicking  uh through the the website to buy the  airplane tickets then this is now  several months ago you know i i  completely assumed i was just gonna buy  an airplane ticket to go and come back  and you know you're looking at all the  different kind of minute factors oh is  it cheaper if i fly on a friday or a  sunday you're kind of looking at the  chart you're going through all this  stuff  and you know you're getting these  warnings pop up you know you cannot do  this unless you've satisfied condition x  y and z make sure you see the government  restrictions and to some extent while  i'm dealing with the deals like yeah  yeah okay i'll look into that in a  minute  i 100 assume that whatever the barriers  were  they would be superable rather than  insuperable like like you'd be able to  cope with it you'd be able to jump  through the hoops  and i'm like sitting there with my  credit card out ready to make the purge  the internet it's like okay now i'm  going to read the fine printer i'm going  to start going through the government  guidelines  and they were insuperable rather than  super bowl it was like wow there's no  way  i can do this until these travel  restrictions end like this for me  this is impossible i can't do this so  you know like obviously i'm disappointed  and  again the good news about the thai court  system is it's already gone on for years  they're  willing to reschedule and i think  probably a lot of their cases just even  domestic cases let alone international  cases probably a lot of things have had  to be delayed and rescheduled again  again now i haven't seen the current  judge in charge of the case the last  time i was in court they had fully three  judges on a panel you know handling the  case but it's not surprising that so  many years having gone by at least one  of the judges has changed and what was  reported to me by my lawyer is that the  the current judge who's taking the lead  in the case the judge who seems to be in  charge he does take it really seriously  and that's why he did not want my  testimony to be by skype or by telephone  or something you know he wanted me to be  there in person given the seriousness of  of the case for me to  give a deposition under oath give  testimony under oath however you want  everyone to say it so that's a good sign  that the judge is insisting on that on  the letter of the law as well as the  spirit of the lord saying no no this guy  has to fly in and and be in court  you know obviously from day one on this  i remember you know saying this to  another youtubers quite a stupid person  didn't get it i remember saying on  youtube look i have never promised  people that i would win  that's ridiculous  [Laughter]  what i've always said is i am going to  stand up and do the right thing because  it's the right thing to do you know like  that's what i'm here to do if i if i win  i'm going to win fair and square if i  lose i'm going to lose fair and square  but like if i lose this case  you know  i still will for my part i will have  done morally the right thing to do and  as i said sorry in the first 20 minutes  of this video  you know  um  it's already had a tremendous effect and  look guys i know  i know when the history of the vegan  movement is written  it's going to be all about peter singer  that's what's going to be all about  people are going to discuss the last  decade of the vegan movement as if peter  singer is what's worth talking about and  it's not okay nothing could matter less  for the last 10 years of the vegan  movement than peter singer all right i'm  sorry let's let's just come back to the  examples i mentioned before nobody  started riding a bicycle up a mountain  because of peter singer nobody sold all  their furniture and sat down on the  floor because of peter singer nobody  reorganized their whole vegan movement  because of peter singer freely and  durianrider had a deep and broad impact  on veganism their impact was massive  they also had a massive impact on a huge  audience of meat eaters who were drawn  to the spectacle so as i said in in that  in that book you know freely enduring  writer and the whole phenomenon of what  was going on in veganism around the year  2014  that epoch of veganism it created a  freak show  and the vegan activists were optimistic  that somehow  this would uh indirectly  generate or regenerate  an ethical political vegan movement that  this was going to change the world for  the better forever you know and all the  best but even though this was a freak  show  that it just sounds so ridiculous when  you say about it that the outcomes of  the freak show were going to be to  produce you know the same kind of  outcomes that uh for example the  struggle to abolish slavery you know  produced well guess what that's not how  the abolition of slavery went down in  the united states of america it wasn't a  bunch of people giving interviews about  how if you liberate your slave you're  going to have six-pack abs so you're  going to look better in a bikini like  the abolition of slavery was not based  on catering to human vanity or catering  the idea that you could have a better  sex life there was a lot of that there's  a lot of that saying to men that they'd  have better erections that they'd be  able to sleep with these young fabulous  vegan women and stuff there was a lot of  catering to the fantasies of the melee  go and there was a lot of catering to  the fantasies of the female ego yes i  mean this the aspect that the media paid  the most attention to was dealt with  that teenage  female girls say  18-24  bonnie rebecca uh essena o'neal essen  o'neal there's a media darling from that  2014 era as if that's what it's but  guess what a huge amount of the money  came from catering to the middle aged  female ego came to catering to the  elderly female ego and say hey you're  getting older you don't have to look  like your grandma you can look like  freely you can have this amazing body  you can do yoga and you can wear skin  tight undersized clothes all the time  you can be a middle-aged woman and be  this you know and by the way guys if you  don't get the irony the carnivore diet  people play exactly the same game they  get exactly the same outcomes jordan  peterson's daughter i believe she's  called michaelia peterson  i honestly don't know the right way to  pronounce her first name because it's  based on the historical figure mikhail  gorbachev it's a man's name with a  feminine ending so i don't know mikhail  yeah michael gor  mckelly uh peterson you know  um  exactly the same message she says to  people hey don't be a follower be a  leader she says to people that you can  be an apex predator like you as a  middle-aged woman can can be this  powerful predatory you know figure if  you just sign up for her for her diet so  i mean you know  the same tactics  that were used  to support and propound veganism can be  used against veganism and they are being  used against veganism and guess what the  anti-vegan arguments are way more  popular than the pro-vegan arguments i  mean this is like the old one glass of  wine a day diet are you any of you guys  remember that it's one fad after oh oh  do you know  why women in france on average are so  much more slender and healthy looking  than women in the united states of  america it's because of the one glass of  wine a day diet do you know you know i  mean the same way you know you may not  remember this book there was a hit book  called the skinny [ __ ] the skinny [ __ ]  diet that that was old i mean that  wasn't new there were and there was like  oh eat like a middle-aged french woman  instead of a middle-aged american woman  this book will tell you how the  mediterranean diet like again is all  based on stereotype notions so don't you  know women in italy are slender and sexy  eat this italian middle-aged dad yeah  right there are no there are no uh  alcoholic chain smokers in italy really  like you know yeah right and this is all  based on that oh don't you know women in  japan are effortlessly thin you should  try the japanese don't you know women in  china women in thailand or southeast  asia just get on the  it's been one diet after another  and the ludicrous part is they put on  this freak show  and they thought the outcomes of it  would be  the same as the abolition of slavery  that this was vegan abolitionism right  and they're not they're the same  outcomes as any other fad diet that came  and went they put on this freak show  without thinking ahead just five years  to to realize that when the freak show  ends veganism has  no  show  at all  now i've just written a book about this  it is  only a hundred pages long  um  it's one dollar  on kindle and it's basically the minimum  possible price on paper so wherever you  are could be five dollars could be six  dollars on paper unlike freely the  banana girl i'm not trying to get rich  out of this movement i'm not trying to  get rich out of this book i set the  price to be the minimum i could it's not  worth describing all the different  options you have to click when you  publish on amazon okay but if you want  to know more about that these are  you know important questions and  guys we got to start coming up with new  answers and i am not some egomaniac who  thinks that i have the only  viable answers i wish i could tell you i  had competition who's my competition  peter singer  who else is offering any kind of  intellectual leadership  intellectual introspection or just  brainstorming about what the vegan  movement can be and is supposed to be  right i have basically zero competition  so i'm not out here saying that my my  solution is the only solution that you  must follow my my guidance if you've got  better ideas  leave me in your shadow eclipse  my contribution to the vegan movement  but right now it's basically me and  peter singer and gary yourofsky and gary  francione like this is the this is the  brain's trust veganism has going for it  and i've got to tell you  yeah what i have to say about the future  of the vegan movement is it better than  peter singer you're damn right it is is  it better than gary francione or gary  yourofsky is it better than the only  competition of god of course it is so i  do want to say to you take the time buy  the book for one dollar if you read the  first five pages of this book if you get  the free sample of this book you are  going to realize it's telling you things  that have never been discussed on my  youtube channel this is not a repetition  of what's on the youtube channel it's  not a summary of what's on youtube  channel this is a really powerful  question pardon me it's a really  powerful statement  about the most important question of all  which is  what now  what next yeah the critique of what's  gone wrong in the last 20 years in  veganism is tremendously important  you've heard a lot of them in the  channel the critique of what's wrong  with freely's approach and what's wrong  with durianrider's approach it is  important okay but with all that having  been said and done  i did not write a book repeating one  word of that critique the book is about  what now what's next and the answers to  that question the answers you come up  with again you can use my answers you  can steal my ideas i encourage you take  my ideas if you steal my answers great  more power to you but otherwise you've  got to start coming up with your own  answers all right this is going to  change your life in the next five years  if your answer to the question what  should be the future of the vegan  movement is you think it's people  standing on the sidewalk covered in fake  blood  holding a sign chanting  is that what you're gonna do you're  gonna do that one day a week you're  gonna do it two days a week  every week every month for the next five  years and what are you gonna have to  show for at the end of that process  is that what's up is that is that the  future is that the future of your life  you know and guys i mean there's a whole  range of just crazy self-defeating  stupid forms of activism and those forms  of activism are so stupid  and so depressing  that it funneled people into the freely  enduring writer phenomenon and i get  that like i sympathize they're like hey  the old model of activism is  disempowering and denigrating here's  someone freely enduring writer here's  someone who's saying that you can be  empowered you can be influential you can  change the world by getting on a bicycle  going up and down a hill  having a lot of sex  going to the beach and swimming that's  it when you compare just those two  options it seems really appealing and i  knew when i spoke to all these people  who signed up for it and yes some of  them were middle-aged uh some of them  were teenagers yeah  oh god yeah right maddie lindberger i'm  thinking also of the um  the girl i interviewed on my channel  sorry maddie lindberger melissa is a  great example of that but you know i  interviewed a young woman on my channel  and she dropped out of high school to go  live this life in chiang mai and of  course one of her fundamental problems  was that the weight loss diet actually  caused her to massively gain weight not  lose weight  she was she was a totally slender person  before freely's diet but she was an  example of someone who gained a ton of  weight living in chiang mai eating these  massive amounts of fruit every day she  was not the only one we had quite a few  case studies of that now it hasn't been  mentioned up to this point because  that's not what i'm interested in i'm  not interested in the most effective way  to lose weight or  gain muscle mass but it is at least a  footnote to this that actually the diet  and exercise advice given by frilly  enduring rider it was terrible and you  know when the fool and his money are  soon parted you know you you tell me you  can go ahead and buy their buy their  ebook and and try it for yourself but  you know again you know so that was  someone i believe she was in chiang mai  for two years that's just from memory  you can actually watch the youtube video  and she'll talk about i want you there  were people who dropped out of high  school there people dropped it out of  college to go to chiang mai and study at  the feet of the master and live this  lifestyle and to many cases to try to  become famous and successful on youtube  not all not all of that some of them  just wanted the body or wanted the  sexuality some of them wanted to save  the planet some of them wanted to save  the animals some of them wanted to make  the world a better place where there  were all there were all these people  brought together and galvanized  by this new model of activism and partly  they were running away from the  hopelessness of the old model of  activism i'm out here and i'm publishing  this book and click on the link and get  it for one dollar you'll never get the  free sample and start reading it um i'm  publishing this book saying to you both  of those models are wrong and i'm saying  you even if you don't think i've got all  the right answers i'm asking all the  right questions and i am presenting you  with a new better positive model and  it's not just a model for the vegan  movement it's not a model for society on  the scale of millions it's not a utopian  plan on a huge scale of what millions of  people should do with billions of  dollars all right it is a model for what  you should do  this month  and then month after month how you are  going to change and develop as a person  how you're going to influence the future  of planet earth in the next five years  and yeah i think you're going to start  seeing results right away i think the  message of this book is going to be  something really positive in your life  and standing on the sidewalk pouring  blood over yourself another protest  wasn't holding the corpses of baby pigs  holding little dead pigs holding signs  weeping  chanting quote unquote demonstrating  so-called civil disobedience if you do  that for the next five years  who are you going to be and what  difference are you gonna make after  those five years and guys it's been five  years let's look at maddie lynn burner  let's look at bonnie rebecca let's look  at henia mania let's look is he this my  favorite let's look at izzy davis is a  great example it's true  okay  five years later  who have they become and what is the  difference they've made  not only did these people discredit  themselves  they discredited the vegan movement  timothy chief  timothy chief the vegan prince as he was  once called again he became a very  prominent vegan leader in athens what  who is he now  who and what has he become  and what has he accomplished for the  past present future of the vegan  movement hey guys hey give the video a  thumbs up we got 30 people in the  audience we should have 30 thumbs up  help people discover okay do you know  any other youtube channel that asks  these [ __ ] questions has earthling ed  ever once come on camera and just said  you know what looking back at the last  five years  who of my colleagues is still here in  this movement what have the real  outcomes been in this movement or lesser  years are you ever going to get this  level of honesty and reflection from  paul beshear or wayne syong will you  just stop turn around look back at the  last five years and say hey guess what  this basically just [ __ ] up a whole  lot of people's lives and didn't  accomplish anything positive and hey  guess what  durianrider and his psychotic sex life  really were part of the problem and they  still are the fact that people  the most prominent and most successful  people in the movement were motivated by  money fame power respect sex  not necessarily in that order for a lot  of these people sex was number one those  are the type of people who were your  leaders it was people with the the moral  and ethical character of durianrider  because i just want to say this like i i  know at least i have at least two or  three youtube videos in my channel of me  speaking to teenagers over skype  right  my point is not that there's something  bad about talking to teenagers journey  writer does that to me constantly when  i'm talking to teenagers i've talked to  some teenagers this month  i have one fan of my channel who's he's  male he's still in high school i have  another  fans of the channel who are in their  first year of university and stuff right  but like and again you can watch the  youtube videos of me talking to these  people male or female i'm not trying to  seduce them and i'm not trying to build  up my own fame and i'm not trying to  sell ebooks i'm not trying to make money  out of it i'm not trying to get laid out  of it like you know the younger people  i've reached out to it's for exactly the  the motivations and reasons that are so  explicitly iterated and reiterated on my  channel again and again and again uh you  know so that's how i've played the game  and i have how long is my track right  now eight years ten years like it's  again so i said earlier  here's a statement from freely about how  scandalous during writer's sex life is  it isn't it isn't defamation or slander  for me to quote this statement freely  guess what  none of my ex-girlfriends have ever said  anything like that about me  not not even i'm sorry ex-girlfriend no  woman who has ever met me has ever said  anything like this about me on the  internet it's all been a fiction  invented out of thin air by durianrider  it's been real defamation okay that's a  kind of negative inference the absence  of scandal the absence of innuendo about  myself okay but guess what you also have  positive evidence you have all the  evidence of how i actually have been  living my life how i actually have been  talking to women and men young and old  the message i've been delivering again  and again and again  and by the way that includes what i had  to say to people like maddie limberner  and so on where i said look you know  what you know what kid  don't get by on your looks i know you  can i know maddie lin burner is capable  of getting buying looks i know essen  o'neill is capable of getting better  sorry the ultimate nina and randa  test bag oh god test bagging oh uh  oh  the one is in hawaii now  um forgetting her name claire michelle  claire michelle great example clara  whether it was claire michelle test bag  who dropped out of high school to do  this thing to do this thing you see  right here test  whether it's claire michelle tess begg  or nina and randa what i'm saying to  them look you really need to cultivate  the life of the mind  like you need to develop yourself as an  intellectual that's what i've been  saying to young women again and again  and again and guys it may not be  university not everyone gets to go to  university you may live in a country  where all the universities are crap i  live in canada  i don't know a single university here i  can say anything positive about i used  to live in cambodia i used to live in  thailand i knew one young woman so i  knew her in canada but she was born and  raised in thailand  and she went to university in thailand  for one day  and she could see it was so bad she got  the refund you know she was like look  this is not like i see what this is this  institution and she ended up you know  years later she went to canada to get a  university education canada where also  the universities are terrible but dude  i'm not saying university education is  for everyone like you know and today all  the books you need you can order off  amazon like literally the [ __ ] every  single textbook used in every university  in the world certainly in english  this is not actually some languages it's  not true chinese it's hard to get  university textbooks in chinese but  anyway if we're talking about the  english language english or german or  french you can get the books you can do  the learning and you can without a  university you can become  someone of real intellectual substance  of real moral integrity who you are  intellectually emotionally ethically  that's what really matters  and look at what the [ __ ] happened to  henia mania look at what's left of her  today  look at what's left of  any of these people frankly tess begg  she's a [ __ ] basket case she's the  youngest of all of them look it's what's  left of nina miranda seriously look at  the [ __ ] ruin of a human being of  nina nelson and and randa nelson look at  them  ruinous it's pathetic you know guess  what you you you bought into durian  riders lie about what the meaning of  life is you bought into this model of  the meaning of life where the only thing  that matters is showing off your uh your  abdominal muscles showing off how lean  your abdomen is  showing off your body on the internet to  earn a living and you know guess what  long term now you're a middle-aged woman  and you look it's theoretically possible  to be a fitness influencer and develop  the musculature and leanness of your  midriff while also developing yourself  intellectually  nobody does it i mean you know it's so  incredibly scarce have you ever met a  stripper who also develops yourself in  this way it's possible there's nothing  stopping you but most people don't  because they're making a meaningless  life their priority and look guys look  i'm really opposed to people watching  sports on tv like men waste a shed load  of time watching football on tv they  waste all this time watching ice hockey  on tv  soccer football whatever okay i'm really  opposed to that but if you said to me is  it impossible to be a sports fan and  also develop yourself intellectually and  and in the way you're describing to have  the life of the mind  of course it's possible okay it's  possible but nobody does it  right  is it possible to develop the life of  the mind while being a competitive poker  player being really like a an inveterate  gambler being a gambling addict and like  a really serious gambler look i can't  tell you that's impossible but in  reality nobody does it and if you talk  to those people and talk about what  their whole life is like when you have a  life that's built around competitive  poker playing you'll start to see why  well guess what look at nina and randa  look at look at the warning i gave them  five years ago and look at what the [ __ ]  is left of them today look at bonnie  rebecca look at any of these other  people okay and guys these are not the  worst case scenario because the worst  case scenarios are all people who  deleted their youtube channel without a  trace deleted their instagram without a  chase and some of them are already dead  okay the vast majority of negative  examples because there's a brief  digression i just say this okay  if you walk around the city of victoria  the city i'm in is called victoria if  you walk around the city of victoria you  only see the vegan restaurants that are  still in business  you need someone with a long memory to  point out to you and talk to you about  all the places that used to be vegan  that are now gone without a trace okay  you only see the youtube videos the  youtube channels the internet  personalities who are still successful  enough to be a going concern look at  stella ray wow what an example what  stella ray another disciple of dorian  writer look at her today it's pathetic  what if stella ray was your daughter  what if stella ray was your sister how  bad would you feel for her and she's not  the worst case nerd i mean look at vegan  cheetah look at what's left of him you  know i mean but my point is this no  matter how pathetic stellare is no  matter how pathetic kenya mania is these  are people who are really pitiable  what's left of them today once during  writer and freely are done with them  frankly once they're done with living  that life and pursuing that dream the  key the most important thing of all  are the the stores that are just gone  the store has closed and disappeared  there's nothing left on the map to mark  that used to be there there used to be  vegan bakeries here there used to be  vegan restaurants and it's easy to tell  yourself veganism is a great success  story because you're only seeing the  successful examples right and look so  everything i've just said about the  lifestyle activism model the permanent  vacation model the durian writer and  freely model  how many youtube channels have  disappeared that were from those people  who really believed in pouring blood on  themselves and holding up a sign and  chanting on the street i've known a few  of those people face to face who did  that for a number of years i know one  woman who still runs a um  an animal rescue shelter one of these  places and she knows she's honest with  me i know she's honestly it's ruined her  life it has completely ruined her life  and her whole life revolves around doing  fundraising never having enough money  for the veterinary care for the animals  providing the food and literally chasing  around and cleaning up these animals on  a farm where the animals aren't happy  and the humans aren't happy it just  perpetuates their lives until they die a  horrible dirty death you know it's just  awful being with these animals as they  get older and older and their health  falls apart you can't kill them you  can't you know put them down because  it's a vegan rescue shelter just how  horrible her whole life is now doing  this thing she thought was going to be  ethically wonderful was going to help  transform the world and create a vegan  planet so you know  she has no youtube channel she has no  weapons she isn't coming out and talking  about our life is ruined by vegan  activism most people just stop most  people go back to eating meat and so on  too right but like i'm just saying  the negative impact including the  particular teenage girl i mean she was a  teenager once i started i forget when i  interviewed you it's possible when i  interviewed her it's possible she turned  20 or 21 but when she started she was a  teenager in high school  um  she has no youtube channel today she has  no web presence there's nothing you can  find and she has no the only  video you can see telling her story is  my interview with her and i i don't  think she goes all the way on that she  doesn't talk about how following  durianrider and freely and moving to  chiang mai and gaining a ton of weight  on this diet and if it didn't ruin her  life it seriously impacted her life for  at least five years at a crucial stage  right so you know again  the most important negative consequences  and indications they've disappeared  from the internet without a trace  um and i ask you who's asking these  questions  you know who is asking the questions  millions of dollars  millions were donated to black lives  matter babe could you just grab the  front part of the new york times all  right  okay just just an example  okay new york times magazine i've  searched on the internet okay i have not  been able to find one editorial or one  article in the new york times  ever asking the question  where did the millions of dollars go  the money donated to the black lives  matter movement  what happened  asking tough questions and doing  investigative research to find  to find out answers now  i think there are some other newspapers  that are asking those questions right  that's the good news for that specific  example okay  millions of dollars  in hundreds of years of people's lives  have gone into vegan foundations vegan  charities vegan organizations the new  york times is never going to ask that  question  they're never going to say where did the  money go what were the outcomes  never  all right  and when you scale it up when you look  at on a huge scale all right you have a  planet that's dealing with  acid  pardon me ocean acidification  you know it's dealing with climate  change under various headings terrible  irreversible  life-altering climate change the melting  of the polar ice caps so on and so forth  all right we have this whole [ __ ]  political discourse going on that we can  supposedly solve this problem through  solar panels while everyone goes on  eating pork and bacon  three meals a day all this crap like oh  yeah the whole world is gonna keep on  eating cows and pigs and chickens we're  gonna keep on having billions of these  animals on earth we're gonna keep  feeding these billions of animals and  having them pooing in all the rivers and  lakes with untreated sewage on a scale  of billions and billions of animals to  feed billions and billions of humans  [ __ ] unnecessary unhealthy you know  oh oh but you know um oh we can solve  the problem by driving to the beach to  when you go on beach vacation instead of  taking an airplane  no no [ __ ] i have seriously seen  this argued like in england people are  saying instead of flying to spain  they're going to drive they're going to  take the ferry in their car  and drive from england to spain because  that's going to solve global warming  that's that's what's going on okay  billions  of dollars all right i have never seen  any other youtube channel asking the  question sorry a vegan youtube channel  at least but to be honest even the meat  eaters they don't really ask these these  questions right  guys  we're running out of time  we're running out of time for the planet  when you look at ocean acidification the  other really serious  really irreversible effects  of climate change right we're running  out of time and you and i  are running out of time because we're  gonna die all right you have only so  many years on this planet  and that is part of why i'm so  passionate and saying to you don't  become a gambling addict don't go skiing  i'm morally opposed to downhill skiing  guys you know because a waste of time is  is a moral and ethical problem you've  only got so many hours of the day and so  many months a year where you're really  mentally sharp if you have a two-week  vacation from work don't spend it  downhill skiing i'm serious i'm against  gambling i'm against downhill skiing and  i'm against the whole model of the  permanent vacation that these people  fall now again just just want to say  the restaurants that closed and went out  of business you can't see when you're  getting the tour of the city when you're  walking down the street you only see the  successful examples okay  the most successful person  in the permanent vacation category the  perma vacation lifestyle and his career  was really in part created by freely the  banana girl because she promoted him on  his youtube channel is  james  aspy  what is left  of james aspie today  all right and  let's be real how much better  a person  could james aspie be if he had started  following my advice just five years ago  if he had followed the isil mazzard  model  instead of the freely and durianrider  model all right maybe i'm an  irrepressible  optimist  i really think there's a better person  james asked me could be today  if he had lived his life  my way  if i didn't believe that i wouldn't say  this [ __ ] to you  okay and we can go through the list of  all the other people like james aspie  you know okay let's let's take a [ __ ]  look at joey carmstrong when i was in  chiang mai thailand he was still in  chiang mai supporting durianrider eating  durianrider's diet and very unhappy that  he was getting fatter and fatter on  journey writer's diet that was part of  their conflict was that the diet didn't  work okay  he was very much in dorian ryder's  shadow until quite some time after my  confrontation with durianride i remember  being more than a year after my  competition but if not about one year at  least one year let's put let's put it  that way and then finally he stood up  and rebelled against durianrider and  coincidentally or not that was really  part of him spreading his wings and  becoming much more experienced as a  vegan actress now very two very  different guys joey carp strong and uh  uh james aspie james aspy part of the  problem is ongoing drug use right here's  history he's ongoing drugs right  james actually part of the problem is  the sex life yeah yes  uh  but james aspie when he had this  controversy about the stock market him  trying to get rich  out of uh cryptocurrency he set out very  clearly and honestly what his conception  of vegan activism was and how he planned  to change the world through this kind of  lifestyle activism that what he wanted  to do was become rich and famous and  handsome and sexy and then have other  people want to be like him it was  basically we could put it this way it  was the durian rider model on steroids  right  he wanted his own celebrity status his  own lifestyle  of totally reckless endless childish  self-indulgence  right him on the beach with his  girlfriend in a bikini  him living a lavish lifestyle as a vegan  he wanted that  to change the world that was his model  of activism i am here asking you  five years later like i mean today  looking at today in the context  of the last five years  what is left  of that broken down ruin of a man what  the [ __ ] is left of james aspie what the  [ __ ] is left  of henya mania all right it's no  coincidence  and guys you know like  i'm not full of optimism how much better  a person could joey carbstrong be how  much better a person could earthling  head be how much better a person could  win xiang be you know you know i admit  i'm not that optimistic i'm really not  how much better a person could bonnie  rebecca be or  a test bag  or uh  sorry the one his name i give him  michelle claire michelle  you know better okay they could be  better than they are now how much better  i can't say but yes they could be living  a better life if they were living it my  way and those people could be  powerful effective advocates for a vegan  future for a vegan movement if they were  living their lives my way and they can't  and they won't  because they didn't because they instead  lived durianrider's way all right period  and i'm going to tell you something i  think the damage is permanent  i think james asked me could have turned  his life around five years ago and now  he can't and he won't and he never will  i think it's game over from him say the  same about richard being gained you guys  know i was positive and encouraging to  richard for years and years and years  before i started coming on youtube and  saying look you know  richard this is really dark this is  really messed up before i started really  criticizing him in a harsher and more  more condemning way okay yeah you know  what um maybe eight years ago maybe  seven years ago at some point richard i  think could have turned it around it  could have started living a better life  and he didn't  this was the path he got on right and  there is no  saving him today i mean with a lot of  these people i just feel it's a matter  of time before i get the because someone  sends me an email letting me know that  they're dead you know that's it you know  there's i have no hope whatsoever so  guys i wouldn't be saying this to you if  i didn't think it mattered not just in  some abstract sense  of a society of millions of people the  future or climate change right  i'm talking about  you  i'm talking about the immediate future  for your  for your life right and right in this  video i haven't even gotten into there  are even worse leaders for the good  movement so we just got to mention in  the in the comments about being uh put  in prison for terrorism right  there are a lot of forms of vegan  activism that'll put you in jail and  there were a lot of people on youtube  you know making excuses for it  okay guys  so look that was my update on this i  think i'm going to wrap up the video  there i will just mention i mean i  thought i would read this stuff out but  it's probably kind of boring it's just  on a lower intellectual level than  everything we've talked about here but  the emails i've had from durianrider  many of them are posted on my blog i can  give you this link right now this gives  you i mean like i would feel embarrassed  it's a gentleman don't want to waste  your time i don't want to provide you  with a hundred pages of emails  but you know this is a link to  a long list of emails that i received  from durianrider the sad fact is  that after the end of this list of  emails he continued writing to me  and  fundamentally  nothing in his attitude has changed  nothing in his act has changed he  reverted to  trying to bully me  trying to extort me and directly  threatening  to  invent lies about my sex life and then  put them on the internet in a way that  would ruin my professional reputation so  we're getting like in terms of a court  of law we're getting a full modus  operandi here right we're getting a full  and like you know he is threatening me  and he's demanding that i delete my own  videos and so on and that if i don't um  you know he he's saying that he's going  to make up lies about my relations with  teenage girls and he's saying the police  will go after me uh so on and so forth  so it's  you know and he claims  he uh  he has facebook posts he can use against  me that will i use screenshots of  facebook presumably facebook i made or  something or a facebook post of other  people uh saying these things about me  so you know he claims he has something  that uh socrates said about me i should  give you guys my my blog update i had  a blog uh whatever happened to socrates  and uh what there was another one on um  uh whatever happened to you you  mentioned a minute ago the girl from  california izzy david there you go yeah  those are two good blog posts i should  give you guys you know so  you know i know it would be nice to  imagine  that  uh so i'm just giving a synopsis here of  the email  rather than you know reading it out to  you guys  it would be nice to imagine that  durianrider had made some kind of  progress had made some kind of  intellectual ethical change where he now  looked back on what happened in 2016 and  realized that was wrong and he wouldn't  do it again but the hilarious thing is  not only is that untrue  he is doing the same thing again he is  doing the same thing right now  and this is also true into in terms of  his lies about  health and diet advice by the way i have  a youtube video of him so i a video from  his channel that i that i downloaded  where he's making things up off the top  of his head about hashimoto's syndrome i  mean he makes up bizarre  health claims you know  just to market his own over-the-top  diet advice to his fans he is still  trading in pseudoscience he is still  trading in ridiculous unscientific  or pseudoscientific claims about health  and diet he is still  denouncing defaming and bullying people  and and even me in particular even  someone who's demonstrated how hard he  is to intimidate like i'm guess what i'm  a hard person to intimidate not going to  win this way even someone like myself  he is still very much up to his old  tracks he is still doing the same things  he was doing in 2016 continuously  without any improvement without any  change  [Laughter]  so when we come back to the question  that opened this youtube video what if i  hadn't stood up against durianrider  right  what if i hadn't  taken a stand i can tell you how the  world would be a different place because  i know  durianrider would still be doing the  terrible damage to the vegan movement in  general and the terrible damage to  particular people's lives that he was  doing before he  hasn't changed what has changed is the  political context surrounding him and  yeah god damn it  i  changed